This code is the experimental design related to paper entitled "Dysarthric Speech Recognition: An Investigation on using Depthwise Separable Convolutions and Residual Connections". It exapnds Speech Vision by modifying it's model architecrure to benefit from Depthwise Separable Convolutions and Residual Connections. 

Abstract:

Dysarthria is a neurological condition resulting from impairments affecting muscle control involved in speech articulation, leading to reduced intelligibility or unintelligible speech, which affects communication abilities. Although Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) technologies hold the potential to improve the lives of people with dysarthria significantly, ASR systems designed for normal speech have shown limited effectiveness when presented with impaired speech. Consequently, researchers have focused on developing ASR systems specifically tailored for dysarthria. However, progress in this area has been gradual due to the scarcity of dysarthric speech for training and the increased variability of speech among dysarthric individuals, necessitating a larger dataset of dysarthric utterances. One potential solution to enhance the robustness of dysarthric ASR is to deepen the architecture of the acoustic model, which maps the speech signal to words or phonetic units. However, deeper architectures require more training data and pose challenges in dealing with issues like the vanishing gradient problem and representational bottlenecks in deep learning models. In this study, we expanded on our previous findings and investigated the applications of Depthwise Separable Convolution neurons and the inclusion of Residual Connections to propose a deep dysarthric acoustic model, tackling both vanishing gradients and representational bottleneck issues in dysarthric ASR. Multiple speaker adaptive dysarthric ASRs were trained and evaluated for 15 UA-Speech dysarthric subjects, then benchmarked against the state-of-the-art and our previous dysarthric ASRs. Our proposed architectures have delivered up to 22.58% Word Recognition Rate (WRR) improvements over the reference models. We observed an average of 10.81% better WRRs over the base traditional dysarthric ASR for all speakers. Likewise, the proposed acoustic model outperformed the state-of-the-art Transformer-based dysarthric ASR reference model for all subjects with mild dysarthria, and up to 14.26% better WRR for the moderate dysarthric subjects was obtained. Our findings indicate the importance of architecture optimization to not only deal with vanishing gradient and representational bottleneck but also maintain the depth of the acoustic model to ensure sufficient model capacity is available to learn intra-speaker variability caused by dysarthria.

The full paper detail will be addedd after publication.

For Speech Vision, please see: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9419963

